---
title: Multi-Modal Image Co-Registration
layout: ../../../layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro
description: A research tool that performs image coregistration on Optical Ultrasound and fluorescence spectroscopy data to highlight dysplastic tissue.
image: tissue.png
tags: ["MATLAB"]
link: d-eniz/fl-us-coreg
---

This project was developed as part of my dissertation at University College London (UCL), contributing to the ongoing research of UCL’s MISI and µOpUS groups.

My primary contribution was the development of the software pipeline that integrates fluorescence spectroscopy and optical ultrasound (OpUS) imaging, enabling early detection of dysplastic tissue in Barrett’s Oesophagus.

## Technical Approach

I designed and implemented a MATLAB-based software pipeline that processes and co-registers fluorescence and OpUS imaging data. This involved:

- Correcting fluorescence data for depth-related distortions using surface information extracted from ultrasound images.
- Developing an image overlay system to produce anatomically accurate visualizations of dysplastic tissue.
- Creating a user-friendly graphical user interface (GUI) tailored for clinical use, with tools for parameter tuning, visualization, and exporting data.

The pipeline was tested on synthetic phantoms and ex-vivo biological samples to evaluate its performance and refine its capabilities.

## Results and Future Directions

The tool demonstrated its capability to accurately co-register fluorescence and OpUS data, visualising dysplastic regions in both synthetic phantoms and ex-vivo biological samples. Future work will focus on optimizing the tool for real-time imaging and conducting in-vivo clinical trials to validate its performance in real-world scenarios.

## Impact

This project underscores the critical role of software engineering in addressing clinical challenges. By combining algorithm development with biomedical data processing, I created a system that simplifies complex diagnostic workflows while providing focused visualization of clinically relevant data.

My skills in MATLAB programming, numerical methods, and user interface design were central to integrating fluorescence and OpUS imaging into a cohesive tool. Beyond technical expertise, this project demonstrates my ability to collaborate with interdisciplinary teams, align software with clinical needs, and translate engineering concepts into impactful healthcare solutions.

## Credits

This work was supervised by Dr. Richard J. Colchester and India Lewis-Thompson from UCL’s µOpUS research group. Their guidance on the imaging modalities and clinical applications greatly informed the development of the software pipeline. My work focused on the computational aspects, aligning the software functionalities with the group’s imaging research.